# Shared Cluster Computing at UCSF

**Purpose.** 
The shared cluster computing at UCSF benefits basic science and
clinical researchers at UCSF by maximizing the economies of scale in building,
administering, and using the cluster. The cluster provides computing capacity,
network connectivity internally at UCSF and externally to research networks such
as the Pacific Research Platform, data storage, job queueing with accounting,
and systems administration. As a result, the cluster contributes directly to the
basic mission of UCSF, including research, education, and outreach.

**Principles.** 
The cluster is built on a co-op model rather than a fee-for-service
model, in contrast to, for example, most technology cores at UCSF and
high-performance computing provided by Amazon Web Services. In the co-op model,
every contributing research group has immediate access to the cluster computing
power and storage capacity proportionate to their contribution; contributions
are preferably made in cash, although suitable existing hardware may also be
integrated. This funding model suits best the often unpredictable timing and
amount of research funds available to individual projects. In addition, our goal
is to maximize the number of UCSF users of the shared cluster. Therefore, every
member of the UCSF community has access to a fraction of the cluster computing
power and storage capacity regardless of their contribution, reflecting the
contribution by UCSF and shared instrumentation grants from NIH and NSF.
Finally, any unused compute power is available to any user on a first-come,
first-served basis. Every effort is made to accommodate and expand the set of
applications that can be run efficiently on the cluster, as long as they don’t
negatively impact the current users; for example, the cluster already supports
batch analysis of de-identified clinical datasets approved by the UCSF’s
Institutional Review Board but is unlikely to natively support fully
HIPAA-compliant applications because of the detrimental impact on performance
and cost of the entire cluster. If a contributing member leaves the consortium,
they are entitled to take their contribution with them.

**Governance.**
The cluster is governed by a Faculty Steering Committee, guided by
the cluster’s purpose and organizational principles outlined above. The
Committee consists of major contributors (including both basic science and
clinical researchers), a representative of guest users, and a campus Information
Technology representative (*ex officio*), all of whom have some expertise in
cluster computing. The Committee meets as required to review overall utilization
of the system, plan future expansions, discuss funding opportunities, etc. The
Committee also resolves any disputes concerning use and governance of the
cluster. Committee matters are addressed at meetings and by email as needed. To
ensure continuity of governance, the Committee appoints new members by a
majority vote. The Committee currently consists of David Agard, Sergio
Baranzini, Scott Pegg, Brian Shoichet, Tom Ferrin (Co-Chair), Andrej Sali
(Co-Chair), Mike Keiser (representing guest users), and Rick Larsen (*ex officio*,
Campus IT).


